Data/Proposal.md, before:

# W. A. T. C. H. - Web Analysis Tool (of) Cancer History


### URL
https://wonder.cdc.gov/cancer.html


### Date Downloaded
9/24/23


### Authorship
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)


### Name and Version
United States and Puerto Rico Cancer Statistics, 1999-2020 Incidence


### Time period / Geography
1999-2020 (United States)


### Location of Overview
https://wonder.cdc.gov/wonder/help/cancer-v2020.html


### Location of Technical Documentation
https://wonder.cdc.gov/wonder/help/cancer-v2020.html


### Data formats
CSV


### Terms of Use
https://wonder.cdc.gov/datause.html


Data may not be used to attempt to identify individuals listed in the study. Data can be used for statistical reporting and analysis only.


### Suggested Citation
United States Cancer Statistics - Incidence: 1999 - 2020, WONDER Online Database. United States Department"
"of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and National Cancer Institute; 2022 submission; 2023"
"release. Accessed at http://wonder.cdc.gov/cancer-v2020.html on Sep 24, 2023 12:34:57 PM

<br>
<br>

# Interesting uses for Data
1. If a researcher is trying to find a trend in the spread of a certain type of cancer, we could find a way to show that cancer’s movement over time in the US with a US map showing the number of incidents and year the first incident occurred.
2. Policymakers could find out the different types of cancer in their state and how prevalent each one is to try and figure out a source to possibly stop bad practices leading to a rise in incidents.
3. If the user was interested in a particular state or cancer type, they could select it, and be taken to a ranking of cancer information in that state, such as prevalence or growth over time.




<br>
<br>
<br>




# Team Contract


### Team Goals Statement


- Get experience developing as a team


- Find different tools to transform data


- Achieve mastery of all course goals


- Create an intuitive and useful website


### Personal Desired Attainments


- Gain programming skills good enough to create a database-backed website


- Get a better understanding of web development process


### Team Strengths


#### Cuong Chi Tran


- I already know Python and a little bit of HTML and CSS


- I organize my code really well


- I am proactive in working on the project


#### Daniel Estrada


- Don't mind reviewing code for my understanding and to potentially catch errors


- Experience with Python


- Eager to learn new methods and tools needed for the project


- Excited to learn how to make a website


#### London Bettman


- I love HTML, CSS and Javascript


- Experience with Flask and SQL


#### Marshall Johnson


- I enjoy the testing process


- I'm good at making functions and handling edge cases


- I'm usually good at listening and resolving conflicts


### We will capitalize on our strengths by


#### Cuong Chi Tran


- I can urge everyone to start working on the project


- I can contribute to the coding part


#### Daniel Estrada


- Review code


- Come up with helpful and interesting ways to organize the website


#### London Bettman


- Working on code


- Front-end coding


#### Marshall Johnson


- I'd be willing to work on testing


- I can try to resolve conflicts and ensure all members of the group are satisfied with where the project is going


- Back-end coding and feature implementation


### Team Meetings


- Time: specific time is TBD


- Frequency: 1 during the week, 1 on the weekend


- Duration: 1 hour +


- Location: Olin 308/310


- Notes: This is for direct meetings only and is very likely to change as the term goes on


### Team Roles


- Cuong Chi Tran - Facilitating discussions


- Daniel Estrada - Take Notes


- London Bettman - Setting agendas


- Marshall Johnson - Summarize meetings+set goals


- Note: Very likely to change as the term goes on


## Team Communication


- GroupMe group chat.


- Twice-a-week direct meetings


### We will communicate respectfully by being


- Open to others' opinions


- Amenable to changes on our opinions


- Conscious of the use of expletives when communicating with each other


- Conscious of each other's time and space




### When communication breaks down, we will


- Send a direct message on GroupMe to ask for communication


- Talk to them in class, and set up a meeting time in person


### We will collaborate with the help of


- Google Docs/ drive


- GroupMe


### We will make decisions through


- Group discussion and consensus


### Work will be divided by


- Separating into groups in order to complete different parts of the task


- Groups will be for the general division of work and organization, with an understanding that full team collaboration and helping each other out is necessary for a positive group dynamic and project outcome


### Contributions will be meaningful and valued by


- Ensuring whatever someone is working on is something they know how to do / within their abilities given time constraints


- Coordinating what everyone is working on ahead of time to reduce the likelihood of overlap


## Team Expectations


- Satisfactory participation is primarily defined by an equal distribution of work; if some members of the group are doing dramatically less than others, then even if there's a lot of work happening on the project, it won't be satisfactory


- In terms of hours per week, that's likely going to depend on the proximity to a deadline. A minimum of 2 hours per week, per member, is likely a good starting point.


### If someone is unable to meet expectations


- We will talk with them and make sure our expectations are clear, reasonable, and achievable. If the issue persists, we'll likely have to be more persistent about meetings


### Disagreements / Conflicts will be addressed by


- Having each side of the conflict voice their perspective on the issue, with all members present. From there, the goal should be to reach a compromise that combines the ideas of all members of the group.

Commit message:

updated to data with year and sex and fixed proposal

Data/Proposal.md, after:

# W. A. T. C. H. - Web Analysis Tool (of) Cancer History


### URL
https://wonder.cdc.gov/cancer.html


### Date Downloaded
9/24/23


### Authorship
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)


### Name and Version
United States and Puerto Rico Cancer Statistics, 1999-2020 Incidence
(sorted by states, year, leading cancer site, and sex)


### Time period / Geography
2000-2020 (United States)


### Location of Overview
https://wonder.cdc.gov/wonder/help/cancer-v2020.html


### Location of Technical Documentation
https://wonder.cdc.gov/wonder/help/cancer-v2020.html


### Data formats
CSV


### Terms of Use
https://wonder.cdc.gov/datause.html


Data may not be used to attempt to identify individuals listed in the study. Data can be used for statistical reporting and analysis only.


### Suggested Citation
United States Cancer Statistics - Incidence: 1999 - 2020, WONDER Online Database. United States Department"
"of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and National Cancer Institute; 2022 submission; 2023"
"release. Accessed at http://wonder.cdc.gov/cancer-v2020.html on Sep 25, 2023 

<br>
<br>

# Interesting uses for Data
1. If a researcher is trying to find a trend in the spread of a certain type of cancer, we could find a way to show that cancer’s movement over time in the US with a US map showing the number of incidents and year the first incident occurred.
2. Policymakers could find out the different types of cancer in their state and how prevalent each one is to try and figure out a source to possibly stop bad practices leading to a rise in incidents.
3. If the user was interested in a particular state or cancer type, they could select it, and be taken to a ranking of cancer information in that state, such as prevalence or growth over time.




<br>
<br>
<br>




# Team Contract


### Team Goals Statement


- Get experience developing as a team


- Find different tools to transform data


- Achieve mastery of all course goals


- Create an intuitive and useful website


### Personal Desired Attainments


- Gain programming skills good enough to create a database-backed website


- Get a better understanding of web development process


### Team Strengths


#### Cuong Chi Tran


- I already know Python and a little bit of HTML and CSS


- I organize my code really well


- I am proactive in working on the project


#### Daniel Estrada


- Don't mind reviewing code for my understanding and to potentially catch errors


- Experience with Python


- Eager to learn new methods and tools needed for the project


- Excited to learn how to make a website


#### London Bettman


- I love HTML, CSS and Javascript


- Experience with Flask and SQL


#### Marshall Johnson


- I enjoy the testing process


- I'm good at making functions and handling edge cases


- I'm usually good at listening and resolving conflicts


### We will capitalize on our strengths by


#### Cuong Chi Tran


- I can urge everyone to start working on the project


- I can contribute to the coding part


#### Daniel Estrada


- Review code


- Come up with helpful and interesting ways to organize the website


#### London Bettman


- Working on code


- Front-end coding


#### Marshall Johnson


- I'd be willing to work on testing


- I can try to resolve conflicts and ensure all members of the group are satisfied with where the project is going


- Back-end coding and feature implementation


### Team Meetings


- Time: specific time is TBD


- Frequency: 1 during the week, 1 on the weekend


- Duration: 1 hour +


- Location: Olin 308/310


- Notes: This is for direct meetings only and is very likely to change as the term goes on


### Team Roles


- Cuong Chi Tran - Facilitating discussions


- Daniel Estrada - Take Notes


- London Bettman - Setting agendas


- Marshall Johnson - Summarize meetings+set goals


- Note: Very likely to change as the term goes on


## Team Communication


- GroupMe group chat.


- Twice-a-week direct meetings


### We will communicate respectfully by being


- Open to others' opinions


- Amenable to changes on our opinions


- Conscious of the use of expletives when communicating with each other


- Conscious of each other's time and space




### When communication breaks down, we will


- Send a direct message on GroupMe to ask for communication


- Talk to them in class, and set up a meeting time in person


### We will collaborate with the help of


- Google Docs/ drive


- GroupMe


### We will make decisions through


- Group discussion and consensus


### Work will be divided by


- Separating into groups in order to complete different parts of the task


- Groups will be for the general division of work and organization, with an understanding that full team collaboration and helping each other out is necessary for a positive group dynamic and project outcome


### Contributions will be meaningful and valued by


- Ensuring whatever someone is working on is something they know how to do / within their abilities given time constraints


- Coordinating what everyone is working on ahead of time to reduce the likelihood of overlap


## Team Expectations


- Satisfactory participation is primarily defined by an equal distribution of work; if some members of the group are doing dramatically less than others, then even if there's a lot of work happening on the project, it won't be satisfactory


- In terms of hours per week, that's likely going to depend on the proximity to a deadline. A minimum of 2 hours per week, per member, is likely a good starting point.


### If someone is unable to meet expectations


- We will talk with them and make sure our expectations are clear, reasonable, and achievable. If the issue persists, we'll likely have to be more persistent about meetings


### Disagreements / Conflicts will be addressed by


- Having each side of the conflict voice their perspective on the issue, with all members present. From there, the goal should be to reach a compromise that combines the ideas of all members of the group.
